README.md, before:

# 📦 Project Setup

##  How to run tests locally

## Docker Hub Repo/Images
https://hub.docker.com/r/jeffches15/assignment10

![Docker image success](./screenshots/screenshot%20of%20successful%20docker%20image.png)

![Docker image success](./screenshots/screenshot%20of%20successful%20docker%20image2.png)

## Successful GitHub Actions

![GitHub Actions success](./screenshots/screenshot%20of%20successful%20github%20actions.png)


# 🧩 1. Install Homebrew (Mac Only)

> Skip this step if you're on Windows.

Homebrew is a package manager for macOS.  
You’ll use it to easily install Git, Python, Docker, etc.

**Install Homebrew:**

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

**Verify Homebrew:**

```bash
brew --version
```

If you see a version number, you're good to go.

---

# 🧩 2. Install and Configure Git

## Install Git

- **MacOS (using Homebrew)**

```bash
brew install git
```

- **Windows**

Download and install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win).  
Accept the default options during installation.

**Verify Git:**

```bash
git --version
```

---

## Configure Git Globals

Set your name and email so Git tracks your commits properly:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your_email@example.com"
```

Confirm the settings:

```bash
git config --list
```

---

## Generate SSH Keys and Connect to GitHub

> Only do this once per machine.

1. Generate a new SSH key:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

(Press Enter at all prompts.)

2. Start the SSH agent:

```bash
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
```

3. Add the SSH private key to the agent:

```bash
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

4. Copy your SSH public key:

- **Mac/Linux:**

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub | pbcopy
```

- **Windows (Git Bash):**

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub | clip
```

5. Add the key to your GitHub account:
   - Go to [GitHub SSH Settings](https://github.com/settings/keys)
   - Click **New SSH Key**, paste the key, save.

6. Test the connection:

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

You should see a success message.

---

# 🧩 3. Clone the Repository

Now you can safely clone the course project:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-directory>
```

---

# 🛠️ 4. Install Python 3.10+

## Install Python

- **MacOS (Homebrew)**

```bash
brew install python
```

- **Windows**

Download and install [Python for Windows](https://www.python.org/downloads/).  
✅ Make sure you **check the box** `Add Python to PATH` during setup.

**Verify Python:**

```bash
python3 --version
```
or
```bash
python --version
```

---

## Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

(Optional but recommended)

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # Mac/Linux
venv\Scripts\activate.bat  # Windows
```

### Install Required Packages

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

# 🐳 5. (Optional) Docker Setup

> Skip if Docker isn't used in this module.

## Install Docker

- [Install Docker Desktop for Mac](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [Install Docker Desktop for Windows](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

## Build Docker Image

```bash
docker build -t <image-name> .
```

## Run Docker Container

```bash
docker run -it --rm <image-name>
```

---

# 🚀 6. Running the Project

- **Without Docker**:

```bash
python main.py
```

(or update this if the main script is different.)

- **With Docker**:

```bash
docker run -it --rm <image-name>
```

---

# 📝 7. Submission Instructions

After finishing your work:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Complete Module X"
git push origin main
```

Then submit the GitHub repository link as instructed.

---

# 🔥 Useful Commands Cheat Sheet

| Action                         | Command                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Install Homebrew (Mac)          | `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"` |
| Install Git                     | `brew install git` or Git for Windows installer |
| Configure Git Global Username  | `git config --global user.name "Your Name"`      |
| Configure Git Global Email     | `git config --global user.email "you@example.com"` |
| Clone Repository                | `git clone <repo-url>`                          |
| Create Virtual Environment     | `python3 -m venv venv`                           |
| Activate Virtual Environment   | `source venv/bin/activate` / `venv\Scripts\activate.bat` |
| Install Python Packages        | `pip install -r requirements.txt`               |
| Build Docker Image              | `docker build -t <image-name> .`                |
| Run Docker Container            | `docker run -it --rm <image-name>`               |
| Push Code to GitHub             | `git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push` |

---

# 📋 Notes

- Install **Homebrew** first on Mac.
- Install and configure **Git** and **SSH** before cloning.
- Use **Python 3.10+** and **virtual environments** for Python projects.
- **Docker** is optional depending on the project.

---

# 📎 Quick Links

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- [Git Downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Python Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [GitHub SSH Setup Guide](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh)

Commit message:

updated readme to include how to run pytest locally info

README.md, after:

# 📦 Project Setup

##  How to run tests locally

In order to run these pytests, the first command to run is: docker compose up -d --build.
This command builds the image if its not already there, and starts the containers and it in 
the background. This "unlocks" the terminal, allowing pytest commands to be entered. We need to
run this docker command because we are interacting with a PostgreSQL database and a server to connect to.

Running 'pytest' runs every test function in every test file, but I split this up into
several commands. I ran pytest file by file in this order:
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_user.py
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_user.py --preserve-db (check data in PostgreSQL database)
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_schema_base.py
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_user_auth.py
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_user_auth.py --preserve-db (check data in PostgreSQL)
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_fastapi_calculator.py
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_dependencies.py
- pytest -v -s tests/integration/test_database.py
- pytest -v -s tests/e2e/test_e2e.py
- pytest -v -s tests/unit/test_calculator.py

Note: 
   -s: show print/log output: tells pytest not to capture stdout/sterr, so print()
      statements and logging messages are shown immediately in the terminal
   -v: verbose output: shows the full name and their individual results (e.g., PASSED, FAILED) 
      of each test function instead of just a dot (.)

## Docker Hub Repo/Images
https://hub.docker.com/r/jeffches15/assignment10

![Docker image success](./screenshots/screenshot%20of%20successful%20docker%20image.png)

![Docker image success](./screenshots/screenshot%20of%20successful%20docker%20image2.png)

## Successful GitHub Actions

![GitHub Actions success](./screenshots/screenshot%20of%20successful%20github%20actions.png)


# 🧩 1. Install Homebrew (Mac Only)

> Skip this step if you're on Windows.

Homebrew is a package manager for macOS.  
You’ll use it to easily install Git, Python, Docker, etc.

**Install Homebrew:**

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

**Verify Homebrew:**

```bash
brew --version
```

If you see a version number, you're good to go.

---

# 🧩 2. Install and Configure Git

## Install Git

- **MacOS (using Homebrew)**

```bash
brew install git
```

- **Windows**

Download and install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win).  
Accept the default options during installation.

**Verify Git:**

```bash
git --version
```

---

## Configure Git Globals

Set your name and email so Git tracks your commits properly:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your_email@example.com"
```

Confirm the settings:

```bash
git config --list
```

---

## Generate SSH Keys and Connect to GitHub

> Only do this once per machine.

1. Generate a new SSH key:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

(Press Enter at all prompts.)

2. Start the SSH agent:

```bash
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
```

3. Add the SSH private key to the agent:

```bash
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

4. Copy your SSH public key:

- **Mac/Linux:**

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub | pbcopy
```

- **Windows (Git Bash):**

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub | clip
```

5. Add the key to your GitHub account:
   - Go to [GitHub SSH Settings](https://github.com/settings/keys)
   - Click **New SSH Key**, paste the key, save.

6. Test the connection:

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

You should see a success message.

---

# 🧩 3. Clone the Repository

Now you can safely clone the course project:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-directory>
```

---

# 🛠️ 4. Install Python 3.10+

## Install Python

- **MacOS (Homebrew)**

```bash
brew install python
```

- **Windows**

Download and install [Python for Windows](https://www.python.org/downloads/).  
✅ Make sure you **check the box** `Add Python to PATH` during setup.

**Verify Python:**

```bash
python3 --version
```
or
```bash
python --version
```

---

## Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

(Optional but recommended)

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # Mac/Linux
venv\Scripts\activate.bat  # Windows
```

### Install Required Packages

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

# 🐳 5. (Optional) Docker Setup

> Skip if Docker isn't used in this module.

## Install Docker

- [Install Docker Desktop for Mac](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [Install Docker Desktop for Windows](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

## Build Docker Image

```bash
docker build -t <image-name> .
```

## Run Docker Container

```bash
docker run -it --rm <image-name>
```

---

# 🚀 6. Running the Project

- **Without Docker**:

```bash
python main.py
```

(or update this if the main script is different.)

- **With Docker**:

```bash
docker run -it --rm <image-name>
```

---

# 📝 7. Submission Instructions

After finishing your work:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Complete Module X"
git push origin main
```

Then submit the GitHub repository link as instructed.

---

# 🔥 Useful Commands Cheat Sheet

| Action                         | Command                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Install Homebrew (Mac)          | `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"` |
| Install Git                     | `brew install git` or Git for Windows installer |
| Configure Git Global Username  | `git config --global user.name "Your Name"`      |
| Configure Git Global Email     | `git config --global user.email "you@example.com"` |
| Clone Repository                | `git clone <repo-url>`                          |
| Create Virtual Environment     | `python3 -m venv venv`                           |
| Activate Virtual Environment   | `source venv/bin/activate` / `venv\Scripts\activate.bat` |
| Install Python Packages        | `pip install -r requirements.txt`               |
| Build Docker Image              | `docker build -t <image-name> .`                |
| Run Docker Container            | `docker run -it --rm <image-name>`               |
| Push Code to GitHub             | `git add . && git commit -m "message" && git push` |

---

# 📋 Notes

- Install **Homebrew** first on Mac.
- Install and configure **Git** and **SSH** before cloning.
- Use **Python 3.10+** and **virtual environments** for Python projects.
- **Docker** is optional depending on the project.

---

# 📎 Quick Links

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- [Git Downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Python Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [GitHub SSH Setup Guide](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh)
